test


Overview
A valid Kaltura Session (KS) must be passed with each call to Kaltura's API. The session context embedded into a KS identifies your application, content access permissions, and API access permissions (it also contains other internal session data). This information is securely encrypted and hashed, preventing unauthorized manipulation of the session context.
Your application will use a permanent Application Tokens to generate temporary Kaltura Session tokens. The Application Token is never sent between your server and the API, minimizing the risk of compromise. In addition, you may generate a Kaltura Session with fewer privileges than the Application Secret used to generate it, limiting its use to an attacker.
Application Token
Your technical account representative will provide you with an Application Token, which you will use to generate temporary Kaltura Sessions. The Application Token is composed of its ID (ApplicationToken.id) and its token (ApplicationToken.token). It is preconfigured with a maximum session length, a set of content entitlements (Channel access permissions), and API access privileges. The temporary session tokens it is used to generate will inherit these preconfigured properties. You will also be told what hash function to use when working with the Application Token (the default is SHA1, but MD5, SHA-256, and others are also available).
Authorizing with an Application Token
The following process, illustrated in Figure 1, demonstrates how to build a Kaltura Session token from an Application Token. API call details are provided in Table 1 and Table 2.
Request an unprivileged Kaltura Session token ("widget session") using session.getWidgetSession API call (see Table 1). This will return an unprivileged widget session to use in Step 2.
Create an authorization bundle by concatenating the widget session and the Application Token's token and then performing a hash of the resulting string: HASH(widgetSession + ApplicationToken.token)
Request a privileged Kaltura Session token by passing the authorization bundle to the appToken.startSession API call (see Table 2). This will return a privileged KS that you can use to make other API calls.
Use the KS to make other API calls.

Figure 1. Application Token authorization workflow.



Table 1. session.startWidgetSession
Service	session
Action	startWidgetSession
Parameter Name	Required?	Default Value	Notes
widgetId	Yes	
Provide the value _PID (including the leading underscore), where PID is your Kaltura Partner ID.
expiry	No	84600	
The expiry for an unprivileged session is 24 hours (86400 seconds). Do not adjust this value.
Returns	A unprivileged widget session that can be used to invoke appToken.startSession.

Table 2. appToken.startSession
Service	appToken
Action	startSession
Parameter Name	Required?	Default Value	Notes
ks	Yes	
Provide the widget session generated by session.startWidgetSession.
id	Yes	
Provide the ID of your Application Token.
tokenHash	Yes	
Concatenate the widget session from session.startWidgetSession and the Application Token's token value. Then perform a hash of entire string. The hash function to use is provided with your Application Token details (the default is SHA-1).
userId	No	
(Advanced) This value is already set in your Application Token. Do not pass this parameter.
type	No	
(Advanced) This value is already set in your Application Token. Do not pass this parameter.
expiry	No	
(Advanced) This value is already set in your Application Token. Do not pass this parameter.
Returns	A privileged Kaltura Session that can be used to make other API calls.



Security Considerations
The Application Token and all of its attributes must be securely stored on your backend. It must never be coded into an end-user application.
The Application Token must never be sent to the Kaltura API. Instead, send the authorization bundle, which includes the Application Token hashed with a salt.
If the Application Token is compromised, notify your technical account representative right away. The Application Token can be deactivated, which will also deactivate any KS tokens it was used to generate.
